# PAIR CODING


Pair programming essentially means that two people write code together on one machine. It is a very collaborative way of working and involves a lot of communication. While a couple of developers work together on a task, they not only write code, but also plan and discuss their work. They clarify ideas along the way, discuss approaches, and come up with better solutions.

Pair programming is a technique used in agile software development, consisting of two programmers working together on the same team. One of them (the driver) writes the code, while the other (observer) supervises it. Both programmers alternate these roles.
The code developed by pair programmers is shorter and of higher quality than the one carried out individually, because the role of observer allows the reconsideration and continuous improvement of the strategy in the direction of work and improvements on the code that the driver is developing.

One of the reasons for its varied acceptance is that its benefits are not immediately obvious, but are more profitable in the medium and long term. And it's not as simple as "two people working on one computer" either, so many quickly dismiss it when they feel uncomfortable. However, in our experience, pair programming is vital for collaborative teamwork and high-quality software.
Ideally, in pair coding, the workspace is also tailored to the specific requirements of pair programming. Each worker must have their own mouse, keyboard and screen, which will always show the same information as the colleague's.


####  ADVANTAGES OF PAIR CODING


**Minimize the risk of errors:** In general, four eyes see much more than just two: the pair programming method minimizes the risk of errors. While one person writes the code, the other visualizes it and concentrates only on finding errors. In general, it is quite difficult for us to detect the errors themselves. It is usually our colleagues who detect them most quickly.

**Creativity:** The constant exchange that takes place between the pair of programmers gives rise to ideas that might not be possible if the work were individual. Intercom also ensures that problems can be better solved in less time.

**Concise code:** Experience dictates that source text generated by pair programming tends to be shorter in layout and therefore more efficient. This allows a later saving in resources in case of maintenance and adaptation.

**Knowledge transfer:** It can be used for more experienced workers to share their knowledge with their younger colleagues. This not only takes advantage of the essential advantage of pair programming, which is the generation of high-quality code, but it can also be used simultaneously for training purposes.

**Greater resilience of a peer to interruptions:** When one member of the peer must heed an external prompt, the other can remain focused on the task and can help regain focus afterward.




##### **REFERENCES**

1.  SM. (2016). Programación en pareja. Marzo 16, 2021, de Scrum Manager Sitio web: https://www.scrummanager.net/bok/index.php?title=Programaci%C3%B3n_en_pareja
    
2.  Böckeler B. (2020). On Pair Programming. Marzo 16, 2021, de Martin Fowler Sitio web: https://martinfowler.com/articles/on-pair-programming.html
    
3.  DW. (2020). Pair Programming: principio de los cuatro ojos en el desarrollo de software. Marzo 16, 2021, de Ionos Sitio web: https://www.ionos.mx/digitalguide/paginas-web/desarrollo-web/pair-programming/
    
4.  Agile A. (2020). Pair Programming. Marzo 16, 2021, de Agile Alliance Sitio web: https://www.agilealliance.org/glossary/pairing/
